# git-workshop

Repository for the BIF Software Testing workshop

## Introduction

This is the repository used in the Software Testing Workshop for the WUR Bioinformatics group. This repository contains a number of examples relating to the workshop, but should stand on their own as well.

This set of examples only assumes you have python 3.x installed and have a basic familiarity with PIP

1. Clone this repository to begin. 
2. Navigate to the repository folder in a shell, then run `python -m unittest`.
    You should see an output like this:

    ```
    $ python -m unittest
    .
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------
    Ran 1 test in 0.000s

    OK
    ```

    If you can see the above output, you can continue.
    If the above says something like `Ran 0 tests in 0.000s` let me know (or submit an issue if you are reading this online)

3. Install the coverage module by running `pip install coverage`
4. Start doing exercises! 

    - Basic testing exercises are in examples/basics.md
    - Unit testing exercises are in examples/unit.md
    - Integration test exercices are in examples/integration.md
    - If you have time, extra testing info and exercises are in examples/extra.md

    All commands listed in the examples are run in the root directory of the repository (the same directory as this readme file).
    It may be a good idea to have an IDE open to modify code while keeping a separate shell to execute commands.


## Note: Usage of AI code generation

GitHub Copilot was used to generate some of the content in this repository, with the exception of this readme file.

Feel free to use copilot to suggest or generate unit tests for you within this workshop, but note that it is especially important to check tests written by AI, as AI may not understand (or care about, for that matter) the full context of your code and what makes a correct test!

If you are a member of the BIF group, please check if you can use AI code generation in your work outside of this workshop before using it.

In the end, you remain responsible for your code even if it was generated by AI.
